.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" quakeforge is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH VRENG 1 "2009-01-03"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.SH NAME
vreng \- 3D Virtual Reality ENGine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vreng
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVREng\fP (Virtual Reality Engine) is a distributed 3D application
allowing navigation in virtual worlds connected over the Internet
using IP Any Source Multicast (ASM) Technology.
The user will benefit more from this experience if connected on the MBone
(IP Multicast Backbone), but if not, he beneficiates of the full-duplex
Reflector Unicast/Multicast (see -R option below).
.PP
See http://www.vreng.enst.fr/.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBvreng\fP accepts the following options:
.TP
.BR  " -a, --avatar model"
To force an avatar model (android or box or man or guy).
.\".TP
.\".BR  " -b, --skin  b|g|y|w"
.\"To use alternative background colors (skin) of the Graphical User Interface
.\"(GUI), 'b' for black, 'g' for grey, 'y' for yellow, 'w' for white, grey color is the default.
".TP
".BR  " -b, --bbox"
To draw bounding-boxes.
.TP
.BR  " -d, --debug mask"
To validate debugging with a cumulative bit mask position.
A mask is a bit positionned in a 32 bits word. Masks can be
cummulative to trace different features.
.TP
.BR  " -f, --frames rate"
Limits the number of frames per second to 'rate'.
If rate is null or this option has no argument, then
there is no limitation and the application can
use all the power of the CPU and the accelerator card.
.TP
.BR  " -g, --no-gravity"
Starts without gravity.
.TP
.BR  " -h, --help"
To show summary of command line options.
.TP
.BR  " -i, --infogl"
To show current OpenGL infos (GL/GLU versions and extensions).
.TP
.BR  " -k, --keepcache"
Keeps in the cache xml description file, do not use http to retrieve these files.
.TP
.BR  " -l, --listcache"
Lists the cache and exit.
.\".TP
.\".BR  " -l, --look old|new"
.\"To choose look and feel between old one and new one.
.TP
.BR  " -n, --number"
Number of simultaneous threads to download textures images.
.TP
.BR  " -p, --pseudo nickname"
To use a pseudo name rather than the login name (default).
.TP
.BR  " -q, --quality"
To involve a better quality when rendering textures,
to activate if a graphic card accelerator is present.
.TP
.BR  " -r, --refresh"
To refresh cached datas.
.TP
.BR  " -s, --silent"
To disable sound effects.
.\".TP
.\".BR  " -t, --theme n|t"
.\"To use whether flashy neon buttons (letter 'n')
.\"either plain text buttons (letter 't') in the menu bar of the user interface.
.TP
.BR  " -u, --universe url_server"
To use an alternative universe defined by an other httpd server than the default.
.TP
.BR  " -v, --version"
To show the current vreng's version number.
.TP
.BR  " -w, --world url"
To play with a world scene defined by this URL.
The usual scheme is "http", but it is possible to use the "file" scheme
for testing your own world.
.TP
.BR  " -2, --fullscreen"
To display with a double size window (width x 2, height x 2),
covering almost the full screen, but rendering performances will be slower.
.TP
.BR  " -A, --address  group/port/ttl"
To use an explicit IP Multicast Address. Usually irrelevent,
this option is deprecated and used only for testing.
.TP
.BR  " -C, --clean"
To clean the personnal cache located in ~/.vreng/cache/.
.TP
.BR  " -E, --expand"
Expands palettes (GUI) witch are expanded by default.
.TP
.BR  " -F, --fast"
Mode fast without persistency, e.g. without MySql requests to a server.
.TP
.BR  " -M, --multicast"
To use directly the MBone IP Multicast infrastructure,
opposite to -r,--reflector option.
.TP
.BR  " -P, --noprogress"
Do not show progression indicators.
.TP
.TP
.BR  " -R, --reflector"
To use the reflector Unicast/Multicast if your host is not on the MBone.
This option is strongly recommended if the case where, either
your host cannot benefit of IP Multicast routing protocols as PIM-SM,
or if your Internet Provider doesn't supply this service.
This option is set by default.
.TP
.BR  " -S, --nostats"
Do not print statistics when quiting.
.TP
.BR  " -T, --timetolive days"
Cache time to live in the cache (default 3 days).
.TP
.BR  " -bpp bpp"
To set X11 visual bits per pixel at bpp.
.TP
.BR  " --display host"
To use an other X11 display than the default.
.TP
.BR  " --help-x"
To show summary of Ubit toolkit options.
.SH FILES
.BR ~/.vreng/prefs,
.BR ~/.vreng/cache/,
.BR ~/.vreng/icons/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR OpenGL "(3), " Mesa3D (3)
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fBVREng\fP is an Open Source Software under the GPL (Gnu Public License).
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Philippe Dax <philippe.dax at gmail.com> (project manager),
Eric Lecolinet <elc at telecom-paris.fr> (GUI under Ubit),
Denis Arnaud (world management),
Fabrice Bellard	(3D rendering),
Stephane Belmon	(network interface),
Samuel Orzan (world management),
Lionel Ulmer (the GUI under X11).
Eric Varadaradjou (Symbolic navigation)
.SH THANKS
.PP
All students of ENST which have contributed in this project.
