.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" quakeforge is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH VACS 8 "2003-07-14"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.SH NAME
vacs \- VREng Address Cache Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vacs
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVacs\fP (VREng Address Cache Server) keeps dynamicaly the bindings between
world names and there channel strings under the form "multicast_addr/port/ttl".
The main function of vacs is to answer by a \fBchannel\fP string to the
requestor when it receives a request of type "\fBresolve\fP my_world_url".
.PP
The cache contains Ascii entries easily editable by hand.
An entry is composed by an \fBurl\fP (world destription url),
a \fBworldname\fP (extracted from the url),
an \fBuniverse\fP which is the http host (extracted from the url),
and the \fBchannel\fP string computed to be unique "multicast_addr/port/ttl".
.PP
After initialization by a list of well-known couples of world-channel,
vacs maintains in its cache, unique IP multicast addresses and
unique associated ports for a given world.
.PP
The other operations which can do the requestor are "\fBlist\fP" to get all
the couples (world_url - channel) kept in the cache, and "\fBrelease\fP myworld"
to remove an entry from the cache, only granted if the associated universe
matches the requestor's universe.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBvacs\fP command line accepts the following options:
.TP
.BR  " -d vacs_directory"
Specify where is located the directory which contains vacs cache.
.TP
.BR  " -D"
Debugging mode.
.TP
.BR  " -v"
Prints current version and exits.
.TP
.BR  " -h"
Help message.
.TP
.BR  " -l logfile"
Indicates which log file to use, if not specified default is /var/log/vacs.log.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vreng (1)
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fBvacs\fP is an Open Source Software under the GPL (Gnu Public License).
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Philippe Dax, <philippe.dax@gmail.com>.
