.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" quakeforge is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH VAPS 8 "2003-02-28"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.SH NAME
vaps \- VREng Animation Parameters Server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vaps
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVaps\fP (VREng Animation Parameters Server) is a server of predefined
gestures (VAP - Body Animation Parameters)
or facial expressions (FAP - Facial Expression Parameters) encoded in
a pseudo Ascii Mpeg4 format to be delivered to some requester client.
Streams are sent in UDP Unicast or Multicast mode.
For each gesture a file suffixed by either ".bap" or ".fap" is associated
in a directory where vaps is executed.
.PP
See http://www.vreng.enst.fr/vaps/.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBvaps\fP command line accepts the following options:
.TP
.BR  " -d vaps_directory"
Specify where is located the directory which contains bap and fap files.
.TP
.BR  " -D"
Debugging mode.
.TP
.BR  " -v"
Prints current version and exits.
.TP
.BR  " -h"
Help message.
.TP
.BR  " -l logfile"
Indicate which log file to use, if not specified default is /var/log/vaps.log.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR vreng (1)
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fBvaps\fP is an Open Source Software under the GPL (Gnu Public License).
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Philippe Dax, <philippe.dax@gmail.com>.
