.\"                              hey, Emacs:   -*- nroff -*-
.\" quakeforge is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
.\" the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH VREL 1 "2003-08-16"
.\" Please update the above date whenever this man page is modified.
.SH NAME
vrel \- Virtual Reality Engine Language
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vrel file.vrel [file.vre]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVrel\fP (Virtual Reality Engine Language) is a translator which
read a file written in vrel language to produce an output file
used as a world description (.vre) to become a new input for the VREng
(Virtual Reality ENGine) application. If the second argument is not present
then the output will be done on the standard output (stdout).
.PP
See http://www.vreng.enst.fr/vrel/.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR VREng "(1), " vrl (1)
.SH LICENSE
.PP
\fBVrel\fP is an Open Source Software under the GPL (Gnu Public License).
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Philippe Dax <philippe.dax@gmail.com> (project manager),
Pascal Belin <belin@enst.fr>,
Yanneck Chevalier <ychevali@enst.fr>,
Julien Dauphin <jdauphin@enst.fr>,
Alexis Jeannerod <jeannero@enst.fr>
